# Changelog

- Added _even more improved_ styling for `<select>` elements,
  using new [customizable select](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Forms/Customizable_select)
  features.
  
  - Added the `.checks` and `.checkboxes` classes to customize the use of
    selection indicators. By default, single-item selects will use no indicator,
    and multi-selects will use checks.
  
  - Added support for collapsible multi-selects, which can be opened or closed
    like single-selects, using `<select multiple size=1>` (some browsers only).
  
  - See [Forms: Selects](/docs/forms#selects) for more information.

- Added the `--chevron-down-icon`, `--check-icon`, `--square-icon` and
  `--square-check-icon` variables to supply alternate icons
  (in SVG data: URI format).
  These default to icons pulled from the [Lucide](https://lucide.dev) icon set.

- `--muted-accent` is now specified by [colorways](/docs/colorways).

- Added [sidenotes](/docs/components#sidenotes), bits of text
  positioned in the gutters next to text blocks to provide extra information.
  These are created with `<small role=note>`{.language-html},
  or `<aside role=note>`{.language-html} if they contain block elements.

- Added `--sidebar-width` variable to customize the width of the sidebar
  in `.sidebar-layout`.

- Input elements will now be full width by default in some scenarios,
  like when inside pseudo-tables.

  - Added `.wide-inputs` and `.narrow-inputs` classes to override this behavior
    in any part of a document.

- Added `--input-inline-size` variable to customize the default
  max inline size of inputs.

- Added the `.flip` class for inverting the ordering of various components.
  Currently, this includes
  [sidenotes](/docs/components#sidenotes) (to change side) and
  `<select>` elements (to change the position of checkmarks),

- Improved support for vertical writing systems:

  - The `.fullbleed` and `.fullscreen` classes will now stretch to
    either the width or the height, based on the writing direction.

  - Fixed `.sidebar-layout` on vertical writing modes.

  - New logical utility classes have been added to supplement existing
    utilities:
  
    | Existing            | Logical                   |
    | `.top`              | `.inset-block-start`      |
    | `.bottom`           | `.inset-block-end`        |
    | `.left`             | `.inset-inline-start`     |
    | `.right`            | `.inset-inline-end`       |
    |                     | `.inset-block`            |
    |                     | `.inset-inline`           |
    | `.float:left`       | `.float:inline-start`     |
    | `.float:right`      | `.float:inline-end`       |

  - The Missing codebase now uses logical properties
    (i.e. `block`, `inline`) pervasively.
  
  - Due to current CSS limitations, we can't always adapt content
    automatically based on writing mode. Due to this, we've added
    the `.vertical` class which tells Missing explicitly that an
    element contains vertical text.

    - Toggle switches, `<meter>` and `<progress>` elements
      can be adapted via the `.vertical` class.

- Fixed lack of focus indication for
  [toggle switches](/docs/aria/#toggle-switch).

- Fixed an issue where `<select multiple>`{.language-html} elements
  were only one item tall.

- Internal changes:
  
  - We have adopted [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) project-wide.

  - We've moved our website hosting from Netlify to
    [Statichost](https://statichost.eu).
